In this next part, we're going to modify
the React component called compose panel.
That's where you're actually
gonna type this tweet, and
we'll use this mutation that we
created in the previous step.
So let's open our client side project,
sub-project.
And we're gonna go to ComposePanel.tsx.
And in here,
we're going to import some utilities,
The apollo/client gql tag.
And something that will fail at first,
the react hook for
using a new Create Tweet mutation.
So we're gonna add these up at the top.
And we're gonna have to
grab this mutation as well.
Note the word mutation here,
this is different from query.
This is important in terms of
wiring things up the right way.
Otherwise looks quite similar, and we'll
look at that in more detail momentarily.
All right, so note,
we have these dollar sign things,
CreateNewTweet, $userId and
$body, with these dollar signs.
So these are the variables
coming into your mutation.
And then you could have
potentially more than one
of these things that uses the variables,
right?
So this is the idea of having
a mutation and then variables,
and then they can be doing
more than one thing down here.
Which is important if you wanted to sort
of almost create a transaction of sorts,
where many things are happening
at the same time,
you want them to be going on concurrently.
It's not strictly transaction in that it
depends on your implementation and your
resolver, whether you let it to either
complete as one atomic operation or not.
But in any case,
it's sort of gonna be one promise from
the standpoint of the consumer of the API.
And this is a nice little aspect
of the VS Code GraphQL plugin,
you can hit Execute Mutation and
it's gonna ask you for
the variables, the value for user ID,
the value for the other thing.
And then the response would show up over
here, but I'm not gonna bother doing that.
Here's that error from our server.
Nice to be able to do that
right from within your code.
So great,
we have the new operation in our UI.
That means we have to CodeGen again,
in the client project, and yarn codegen.
Show me some checkmarks.
Great, at which point this, yep,
red line went away, now it's just unused.
And we can see here's the type.
These are the variables that it takes in,
looks like everything's flowing
through as we would hope.
So the next thing we'll do
is delete the whole thing.
We're going to replace it
with the hook equivalent.
In fact,
Copilot is correctly suggesting it to me.
There it is, CreateNew Tweet.
And then there's a second argument that
we can capture here, which is error.
And I believe there's a loading property
here as well if you wanted a little
spinner that would render
while you're persisting it.
It's gonna happen so fast in our case
that it's not even worth worrying about.
So that's the first line, and
then we can say, if( error ),
this is on the website code if
you wanna just copy paste it.
Return, Return the error creating tweet,
and then we'll have the error,
something like that.
All right, so there's your hook, and
we're leaving it with the same name.
Should be okay.
And we're gonna have to just change
what's happening at the call site.
So handleSubmit, this is actually what's
wired up to the DOM event here, right?
This is the form submit event.
This is our invocation of CreateNewTweet.
This is where things
are actually happening.
In this case, we just Console-logged,
and then this was like
the placeholder implementation.
We'd log and say,
this is where we would do the thing, and
then we clear the text area, so
that the composed tweet goes away.
Well, in this case,
what we're doing is gonna be async.
So we're gonna need to
change this a little bit.
At the very least,
we'll have to say .then,
and then clear the input or
the text area, something like that.
Right, and let's bound to EsLint.
The other thing is,
we're not just passing in body here.
We're passing in something
that this GraphQL react hook
is designed to receive and
that is a variables object.
So there's this config object.
For now, we're just using variables and
we'll pass in userId.
That's gonna be currentUser.Id, and
then body is something that
we're already getting here.
Also, we have a dangling
promise here which is bad Juju.
So we wanna add a catch block,
Something like that.
So just in summary,
we created our new mutation.
We replaced our placeholder,
CreateNewTweet,
function with the use of a hook.
We're handling this error in
the case if things go wrong.
So this will happen after we attempt to
persist things, maybe our server goes down
to the back end, and this little
text will show up, which is great.
And now, we're changing
the way we're invoking this,
we're not passing the body in directly.
We're passing in this variables object,
giving it the user ID and the body.
Again in our schema,
there's userId, there's body.
So these are not local names,
they are part of your public API.
And then we're clearing things out in
the event things complete successfully,
and we're erroring in the event
that things go wrong.
Let's try this out, let's see if it works.
Yeah, so I got a question in chat,
is error unknown?
It should be, these days I should
really make sure it's an unknown.
I wonder if, You know what,
I would have to type it here.
So there's a new TypeScript feature
that makes it so all caught values,
all values you're encountering
catch blocks are unknowns.
But this is literally the catch
type of the promise API, so
it doesn't really benefit from that.
However, you're welcome
to type it as an unknown.
In fact, I think it's wise to do so.
Yeah, Mark, you're correct,
I did suggest doing this in
the Making TypeScript Stick course.
But that's for try-catch,
the sort of the fundamental
control flow JavaScript concepts.
In the Promise API,
I do not believe that these new
language features carry through it.
In fact, I'd be surprised if I hadn't
already set things up that way.
Let's see.
Yep, use unknown and catch variable.
So I already have this turned on,
it's just,
it's sort of the async version of it.
If this were real try-catch,
you would see it.
But that's the right instinct,
people who are thinking,
make that an unknown, good, keep that.
All right, let's kick the tires,
see if things work.
So we should be able to, let's refresh,
just make sure we get the latest code.
And hello, this is a first tweet.
By the way, this is from nine minutes ago,
this is the stuff that we
persisted through the dev tools.
So that's showing up.
And I'm gonna hit Compose.
Boom, and we see nothing, the text
area gets cleared and we see nothing.
And if we refresh, there it pops up.
Less than a minute ago,
this tweet was created.
So what's happening here is we
are successfully persisting the data.
We can see it, first off, when we reload,
we see that the data comes back.
In addition,
if we look at our changes, we can see,
this just happened,
what's the current time?
37 minutes past the hour, that's probably
this one here, this is my first tweet.
So it's persisting, but
what's happening is the state
in my react app is not updating.
Now, normally you would do this through
some state management library or
you would use set state or
something like that.
There is another option
in the Apollo world.
And that is the idea of re-fetching the
data associated with a particular query.
And that can happen in sort of
an action at a distance way.
So although we're in this composed panel,
and
something just happened, the data we
want to effectively invalidate and
refresh, that's in this Timeline.tsx file.
It's this query here called
GET_TIMELINE_TWEETS.
And in terms of how these are organized,
ComposePanel is a child
component of Timeline, right?
It's within Timeline.
So it's a child that wants to sort
of tell its parent to reload.
Many different ways to do this, but
I wanna show you, this is a good
opportunity for me to show you how you
can do this just at the Apollo layer.
So the way we're gonna fix
this bug is adding a new
option to the way we're
invoking this hook.
And it's going to be refetchQueries, and
we'll pass in an array
containing GET_TIMELINE_TWEETS.
So this is what's exported from Timeline.
Remember, we're exporting
all of our queries here.
See, we're bringing it in up here.
And we're just saying refetchQueries,
GET_TIMELINE_TWEETS.
So when this comes back, it'll say,
hey, something just happened,
and that something seems to feel that
you could get something different.
So why don't you go ahead and
refetch this?
And behind the scenes,
what's happening is a set state, and
that's causing the timeline component
to refetch and update accordingly.
So I'm gonna save this real quick,
and let's go ahead and
test the UI one more time.
I'm gonna refresh to make
sure I get the latest stuff.
Does this automatically work?
Will we see it right away?
And we do.
And in fact, interesting,
the tweet count isn't changing here.
If I refresh, it is changing.
Actually, we could fix that as well.
It's getting a little heavy handed here.
We could refresh that GET_CURRENT_USER
query as well if we wanted to.
Let's [LAUGH] do that.
If you're feeling like this is starting
to get out of hand, fair point.
No more refetching.
And we can hit this.
Now, are we gonna see the tweets
count go from three to four?
Yes, I love boiling the ocean.
It makes so much steam.
And five.
Action at a distance is a little
dangerous, because you have to
think carefully about how you'd be
able to debug this kind of thing.
And what you don't want is a situation
where someone's performing some
interaction, and
it's causing mysterious side effects
to happen elsewhere in the app.
So use it like salt,
a little bit goes a long way.
But this is a nice, in the case of
the timeline tweets, this is, I would say,
a straightforward kind of thing to do.
And it certainly beats the idea of trying
to shove some client side representation
of that data structure.
Which might not have a timestamp on it or
an ID or whatnot,
trying to shove that into an array and
optimistically update the timeline.
I would prefer just get the new data,
right?
Nicolas asked a good question in chat,
maybe we need idempotency.
So the idea of idempotency,
[LAUGH] it's a very fancy word that means,
Effectively performing an operation more
than once with the same inputs
will turn out to be a no op.
So a lot of this has to do with
writing code in such a way where
your code just wants to
reach a given state.
And if no work needs to be done
in order to get into that state,
no work will be done.
This is how React does its rendering,
for example.
In this case,
I wouldn't argue that we're doing things
in an idempotent way,
because we are fetching a lot of
data that we might already have,
if that makes sense.
So we are doing more work than we need to.
Yeah, all right,
from the classroom, Mark asks,
can current user summary and the tweet
list subscribe to changes somehow?
It feels like compose panel knows
too much about other components.
I could see how you would feel that way,
right,
the compose panel is reaching
up to its parents query.
And one could argue that that sort of
breaks the separation of concerns.
GraphQL does support
the concept of subscriptions.
I'm just gonna kinda show
you what that looks like.
So just, yeah, here we go.
You can create a type called Subscription,
it's very similar to query and
mutation, it's one of these
special top level types.
Here's the thing though.
You know how GraphQL supports querying and
mutation, but
it's totally on us to implement
the actual work that is done.
We're touching a DB, right?
So the trick is not necessarily
like is it possible to use
subscriptions with GraphQL?
Absolutely, it is possible.
But you get into the same problem that
other near real time apps run into.
Which is, there's a significant overhead
for each user that's connected to your
app, right, be it through a WebSocket,
or long polling, or anything like that.
It makes sense if you're
building a chat app and
you wanna know when new messages arrive.
But if you do it for
all of the data that's in the UI,
it's just a lot, and
it's expensive in terms of operating
that system and
making sure that it's performant.
So I would say, Yes,
it's possible, be careful.
The problem GraphQL solves in this space
is not the hardest problem to solve in
this space..
And that the hard problem is, how do
you do this in an efficient way, and
how do you use this near real time update
sparingly in the right
cases where it matters?
If you're building a stock ticker app or
a currency trading app or an Ebay,
and you wanna show the auction countdown.
And you want that UI to update and
for that to be definitely
how much time is left, cuz someone's
making a purchase decision based on that.
That sounds like a valuable place
to use this kind of thing, but
I don't know if I would use it for
a Twitter clone.
Nicholas, in class,
points out that the client could also
provide the count value
that should be updated.
So I assume what you mean is, at the time
the compose panel submits the tweet,
we could just say the count
is incremented by one.
Yes, of course, we could do that.
But I'm not sure that I would advocate for
doing things that way, because what
if the user has multiple devices, and
they send a tweet from their phone and
they have had this page open
on their browser for a week?
It's kinda just there,
they keep it on the third monitor, and
then I want the state to kinda
come from the source of truth.
I don't want it sometimes to
come from my back end, and
sometimes to be coming from my front end.
That can result in a confusing
experience sometimes.